# Sumerian-Semantics
This project is not an exercise in coding, to be honest the code is quite simple. The goal of this project was to see, if modern vectorisation method would be able to capture semantic relationships in an ancient textcorpus accurately and therefore tell us about the accuracy of the method. I chose to use the English translations of 377 different Sumerian literary texts, provided by the Electronic Text Corpus of Sumerian Literature (ETCSL). I do not include the ancient literary catalouges (they are just names of songs) and the Sumerian Proverbs (because their translation is particularily difficult - I tried to translate them on my own in my career as an Assyrilologist). I also tried let the program categorise the corpus into five topics, just to see how it would differ from our topicalisation. 
These were the results:
1. The automated categorisation of topics follows closely the participants of the texts and also formal features of the contents. The by far first topic is compromized of hymnic content clustered around Enlil (the supre god of the sumerian pantheon). Other categories are clearly descernable: the underwolrd, the kings of Uruk or texts centered around the goddess Inana. The approach clearly saw the differences and follows broadly our classifiactions.
2. The vectorisation (here in a CBOW-model) is able to analyse closely semantic relationships in the corpus, which give a detailed account of the Sumerian world view. This is an astonishing feat, given the distance of our time to the texts, written down mostly in the Old Babylonian Period (ca. 2000 -1600 BCE), and also in translation. It is an impressive proof of what modern-day NLP-techniques are able to achieve.
